---
layout: post
title: Performing a 1-way ANOVA experiment in Python
---

##Performing a 1-way ANOVA experiment in Python

This post will focus on how to perform an exploratory data analysis (EDA) of the experimental data set and see if anything jumps out,
perform an analysis of variance (ANOVA) on the data set. After performing the ANOVA we build a model and check its validity.
I will save how to set up an experiment and further steps for later blog post.  My background is in thin film growth so this post will focus on a simple experiment
where the experimenter would like to test the differences in plasma power on chemical vapor deposition (CVD) growth rate. Values are made up and completely my own. 
All analysis will be performed in python using the SciPy package.

###Why ANOVA? 
Analysis of Variance is exactly as its name states. When setting up an experiment, there will be different treatments or levels and then repeats within those treatments. 
ANOVA looks at how the data varies between different treatments (the between), within those treatments (the measurement error) and the total variation. The averages and 
sum of squares are computed and then a ratio is computed.  

The hypothesis of this experiment is that there will be no difference between the different treatments. Since we are comparing the ratio of the variance between treatments 
and variance within those treatments we can use F as our test statistic. This is very useful for investigating if the changes you make in an experiment are statistically 
significant and gives you and idea how to proceed with your next set of follow up experiments. I will break down these ideas and explain in more depth as we compute this in Python. B

##Experimental Set Up

To begin, I created a fictional dataset where I am interested in seeing how my plasma settings affect my CVD growth rate. I set up a completely randomized experiment with 4 treatment
levels of plasma power (8, 10, 12, 14 Watts) with four replicates. The results of the experiment are shown below:

**INSERT FIGURE - CVD PIVOT


EDA-BoxPlot

The first steps in analyzing the data is to take a examine the data visually. This allows the experimenter to gauge how the treatments affects the growth rate. Let's load the data and view it as a box chart.



Setting up dataset in Python

Degrees of Freedom

Sum of Squares

Mean Square

F-Stat

Build the model

Checking the model

Next Steps





